Add API documentation to Konnect (#4633) (#4660)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/api/filtering.md

---
title: Filtering
content-type: reference
---

> The Konnect API supports the ability to filter over the collection and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Konnect API supports the ability to filter over selected collections and
```

note: not every collection will be filterable, I suspect.

### Numeric and timestamp fields

When matching against both numeric and timestamp fields, you can filter in the following formats:

* **Equal**: `?filter[field][eq]=value` or `?filter[field]=value`
* **Contains**: `?filter[field][contains]=value`
* **Less Than**: `?filter[field][lt]=value`
* **Less Than or Equal**: `?filter[field][lte]=value`
* **Greater Than**: `?filter[field][gt]=value`
* **Greater Than or Equal**: `?filter[field][gte]=value`

If the qualifier is omitted, `?filter[field]=value` for example, the filtering behavior will perform an **exact** style
equal match.

## Examples

Given a response schema of:

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "500d74f4-37e1-4f59-b51a-8cf7c7903692",
      "email": "Charlie@konghq.com",
      "name": "Charlie",
      "full_name": "Charlie Cruz",
      "active": true,
      "created_at": "2022-05-10T15:10:25Z"
    },
    {
      "id": "500d74f4-37e1-4f59-b51a-8cf7c7903692",
      "email": "Alex@konghq.com",
      "name": "Alex",
      "full_name": "Alex Cruz",
      "active": true,
      "created_at": "2022-05-10T15:10:25Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-19T15:33:02Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### Single Filter

Reviewer: suggestion: A single filter can still return multiple results. It might be educational to include the `filter[name][contains]=Cruz` example to show that >1 result can be returned. That would be most useful if the whole collection includes a non-matching record, like "Alex Garcia".

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "500d74f4-37e1-4f59-b51a-8cf7c7903692",
      "email": "Charlie@konghq.com",
      "name": "Charlie",
      "full_name": "Charlie Cruz",
      "active": true,
      "created_at": "2022-05-10T15:10:25Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Multiple Filters

With multiple filter parameters,
`?filter[name][contains]=Cruz&filter[full_name]=Alex%Cruz`, the expected
results are:

```json
{
  "data": [
     {
      "id": "500d74f4-37e1-4f59-b51a-8cf7c7903692",
      "email": "Alex@konghq.com",
      "name": "Alex",
      "full_name": "Alex Cruz",
      "active": true,
      "created_at": "2022-05-10T15:10:25Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-19T15:33:02Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Key Existence Filter

To verify a key in the schema is present, you can provide the following
filter parameters, `?filter[updated_at]&filter[full_name][contains]=Cruz`. The
expected results are:

```json
{
  "data": [
     {
      "id": "500d74f4-37e1-4f59-b51a-8cf7c7903692",
      "email": "Alex@konghq.com",
      "name": "Alex",
      "full_name": "Alex Cruz",
      "active": true,
      "created_at": "2022-05-10T15:10:25Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-19T15:33:02Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### Mix of standard and number filters

Reviewer: question: What is a "standard" filter?

To filter based on number equivalence, you can provide the following
filter parameters,

> `?filter[full_name]=Alex%Cruz&filter[email][contains]=@konghq.com&filter[updated_at]`.

Reviewer: issue: this filter does not include anything numeric. What are we trying to demonstrate here?
